docs/FLOW_SUMMARY.md, before:

# Complete App Flow Summary

## 🎯 How It Works Now

### Request Flow Diagram

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    User Makes Request                        │
└──────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────┘
                           │
                           ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│              Middleware (src/middleware.ts)                  │
│  Runs on EVERY request (except static files)                 │
└──────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────┘
                           │
        ┌──────────────────┴──────────────────┐
        │                                      │
        ▼                                      ▼
┌───────────────────┐              ┌──────────────────────┐
│ Is Public Route?   │              │ Is Protected Route?  │
│ (/onboarding, /)   │              │ (/dashboard, /trees) │
└─────────┬──────────┘              └──────────┬───────────┘
          │                                    │
          │ YES                                │ YES
          ▼                                    ▼
┌───────────────────┐              ┌──────────────────────┐
│ Return Immediately │              │ Check Authentication │
│ (No Auth Check)   │              │                      │
└─────────┬──────────┘              └──────────┬───────────┘
          │                                    │
          │                                    │ Has Session?
          │                                    │
          │                                    ├─→ YES → Allow
          │                                    │
          │                                    └─→ NO → Redirect to /onboarding
          │
          └──────────────────────────────────────┘
                           │
                           ▼
              ┌────────────────────────┐
              │   Page Component Loads  │
              └────────────────────────┘
```

## 📋 Route Categories

### 1. Public Routes (No Authentication)
```
✅ /                    → Home page
✅ /onboarding          → Sign up/Login
✅ /api/auth/*          → Auth endpoints (signup, login, logout)
✅ /api/public/*        → Public API endpoints
```

**Behavior:**
- Middleware checks `isPublicRoute()` → Returns `true`
- Immediately returns `NextResponse.next()` 
- **No Supabase client creation** (prevents crashes)
- Page loads normally

### 2. Protected Routes (Authentication Required)
```
🔒 /dashboard          → Main dashboard
🔒 /trees              → Family trees manager
🔒 /explore            → Explore family members
🔒 /settings           → User settings
```

**Behavior:**
- Middleware checks `isProtectedRoute()` → Returns `true`
- Tries to create Supabase client
- Checks for valid session
- **If authenticated:** Allow access
- **If not authenticated:** Redirect to `/onboarding?redirect=/dashboard`

### 3. Dynamic Routes
```
🔓 /[familySlug]       → Family tree by slug
🔓 /shared/[shareId]   → Shared family tree
```

**Behavior:**
- Middleware allows access
- Validation happens in page component
- Can use Prisma (Node.js runtime, not Edge)

## 🔄 Complete User Journey

### Journey 1: New User Signup

```
1. User visits: https://parivaar.world/
   ↓
   Middleware: isPublicRoute('/') → YES
   ↓
   Page loads: Shows loading screen
   ↓
   Client redirects to: /onboarding

2. User visits: /onboarding
   ↓
   Middleware: isPublicRoute('/onboarding') → YES
   ↓
   Page loads: Shows signup/login form
   ↓
   User fills form and clicks "Create Account"
   ↓
   POST /api/auth/signup
   ↓
   API Route (Node.js runtime):
     - Creates Supabase Auth user
     - Creates Prisma database user
     - Returns session
   ↓
   Client stores session in cookies
   ↓
   Redirects to: /trees

3. User visits: /trees
   ↓
   Middleware: isProtectedRoute('/trees') → YES
   ↓
   Creates Supabase client
   ↓
   Checks session → Valid
   ↓
   Page loads: Shows family trees manager
```

### Journey 2: Returning User Login

```
1. User visits: /dashboard
   ↓
   Middleware: isProtectedRoute('/dashboard') → YES
   ↓
   Checks session → No session found
   ↓
   Redirects to: /onboarding?redirect=/dashboard
   ↓
   User logs in
   ↓
   POST /api/auth/login
   ↓
   API validates credentials
   ↓
   Returns session
   ↓
   Client redirects to: /dashboard (from redirect param)
   ↓
   Middleware checks session → Valid
   ↓
   Dashboard loads
```

### Journey 3: Shared Tree Access

```
1. User visits: /shared/abc123
   ↓
   Middleware: isSharedRoute('/shared/abc123') → YES
   ↓
   Allows access (no auth check)
   ↓
   Page component loads
   ↓
   Page component calls API to validate share link
   ↓
   If valid → Shows tree
   If invalid → Shows error
```

## 🛡️ Security Features

### 1. Middleware Protection
- **All protected routes** checked before page loads
- **No way to bypass** authentication
- **Automatic redirects** to onboarding

### 2. Session Management
- Sessions stored in **secure HTTP-only cookies**
- **Automatic refresh** in middleware
- **Validated on every request**

### 3. Security Headers
Every response includes:
```
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
X-Frame-Options: DENY
X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
Referrer-Policy: strict-origin-when-cross-origin
```

### 4. CORS Protection
API routes include proper CORS headers for cross-origin requests.

## 🔧 Key Fixes Applied

### Fix 1: Public Route Early Exit
**Problem:** Middleware tried to create Supabase client for all routes, causing crashes when env vars missing.

**Solution:** Check if route is public first, return immediately if yes.

```typescript
if (isPublicRoute(pathname)) {
  return NextResponse.next(); // Skip everything else
}
```

### Fix 2: Error Handling
**Problem:** Missing env vars caused middleware to crash.

**Solution:** Wrap Supabase client creation in try-catch.

```typescript
try {
  const { supabase } = createMiddlewareClient(request);
  // ... auth checks
} catch (error) {
  // Log error, continue without auth
  supabaseResponse = NextResponse.next();
}
```

### Fix 3: Removed Prisma from Middleware
**Problem:** Prisma doesn't work in Edge runtime (where middleware runs).

**Solution:** Removed `isValidShareLink()` from middleware, validation moved to page components.

## 📊 Current Status

✅ **Working:**
- Public routes load without env vars
- Protected routes redirect properly
- Authentication flow works
- Session management works
- Security headers applied
- Error handling in place

✅ **Tested:**
- Build compiles successfully
- All routes accessible
- API endpoints respond
- Middleware doesn't crash

## 🚀 Deployment Checklist

Before deploying to production:

1. ✅ **Add Environment Variables in Vercel:**
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`
   - `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`
   - `DATABASE_URL`

2. ✅ **Test Authentication:**
   - Sign up new user
   - Login with credentials
   - Access protected routes
   - Verify session persistence

3. ✅ **Monitor:**
   - Check Vercel function logs
   - Verify no middleware errors
   - Test all routes

## 🎓 Understanding the Code

### Middleware Execution Order

```typescript
1. Check if public route → Exit early if yes
2. Try create Supabase client → Catch errors
3. Check if API route → Handle CORS
4. Check if protected route → Verify auth
5. Check if shared route → Allow access
6. Add security headers
7. Return response
```

### Why Public Routes Skip Auth

Public routes like `/onboarding` need to work even if:
- Environment variables aren't set
- Supabase is down
- Database is unavailable

This ensures users can always access the signup/login page.

### Why Prisma Moved Out of Middleware

Middleware runs on **Edge Runtime** which:
- Doesn't support Node.js APIs
- Can't use Prisma (needs Node.js)
- Has limited capabilities

So database operations moved to:
- **API Routes** (Node.js runtime)
- **Page Components** (Server Components, Node.js runtime)

## 📝 Summary

The app now has:
1. **Robust error handling** - Won't crash on missing env vars
2. **Proper route protection** - All protected routes require auth
3. **Graceful degradation** - Public routes work without auth
4. **Security** - Headers, CORS, session management
5. **Performance** - Early exits for public routes

The middleware is production-ready and handles all edge cases properly!

Commit message:

docs: Update authentication flow documentation to reflect client-side Supabase SDK usage and enhance route protection logic details

docs/FLOW_SUMMARY.md, after:

# Complete App Flow Summary

## 🎯 How It Works Now

### Request Flow Diagram

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    User Makes Request                        │
└──────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────┘
                           │
                           ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│              Middleware (src/middleware.ts)                  │
│  Runs on EVERY request (except static files)                 │
└──────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────┘
                           │
        ┌──────────────────┴──────────────────┐
        │                                      │
        ▼                                      ▼
┌───────────────────┐              ┌──────────────────────┐
│ Is Public Route?   │              │ Is Protected Route?  │
│ (/onboarding, /)   │              │ (/dashboard, /trees) │
└─────────┬──────────┘              └──────────┬───────────┘
          │                                    │
          │ YES                                │ YES
          ▼                                    ▼
┌───────────────────┐              ┌──────────────────────┐
│ Return Immediately │              │ Check Authentication │
│ (No Auth Check)   │              │                      │
└─────────┬──────────┘              └──────────┬───────────┘
          │                                    │
          │                                    │ Has Session?
          │                                    │
          │                                    ├─→ YES → Allow
          │                                    │
          │                                    └─→ NO → Redirect to /onboarding
          │
          └──────────────────────────────────────┘
                           │
                           ▼
              ┌────────────────────────┐
              │   Page Component Loads  │
              └────────────────────────┘
```

## 📋 Route Categories

### 1. Public Routes (No Authentication)
```
✅ /                    → Home page
✅ /onboarding          → Sign up/Login
✅ /api/auth/*          → Auth endpoints (signup, login, logout)
✅ /api/public/*        → Public API endpoints
```

**Behavior:**
- Middleware checks `isPublicRoute()` → Returns `true`
- Immediately returns `NextResponse.next()` 
- **No Supabase client creation** (prevents crashes)
- Page loads normally

### 2. Protected Routes (Authentication Required)
```
🔒 /dashboard          → Main dashboard
🔒 /trees              → Family trees manager
🔒 /explore            → Explore family members
🔒 /settings           → User settings
```

**Behavior:**
- Middleware checks `isProtectedRoute()` → Returns `true`
- Tries to create Supabase client
- Checks for valid session
- **If authenticated:** Allow access
- **If not authenticated:** Redirect to `/onboarding?redirect=/dashboard`

### 3. Dynamic Routes
```
🔓 /[familySlug]       → Family tree by slug
🔓 /shared/[shareId]   → Shared family tree
```

**Behavior:**
- Middleware allows access
- Validation happens in page component
- Can use Prisma (Node.js runtime, not Edge)

## 🔄 Complete User Journey

### Journey 1: New User Signup

```
1. User visits: https://parivaar.world/
   ↓
   Middleware: isPublicRoute('/') → YES
   ↓
   Page loads: Shows loading screen
   ↓
   Client redirects to: /onboarding

2. User visits: /onboarding
   ↓
   Middleware: isPublicRoute('/onboarding') → YES
   ↓
   Page loads: Shows signup/login form
   ↓
   User fills form and clicks "Create Account"
   ↓
   POST /api/auth/signup
   ↓
   API Route (Node.js runtime):
     - Creates Supabase Auth user
     - Creates Prisma database user
     - Returns session
   ↓
   Client stores session in cookies
   ↓
   Redirects to: /trees

3. User visits: /trees
   ↓
   Middleware: isProtectedRoute('/trees') → YES
   ↓
   Creates Supabase client
   ↓
   Checks session → Valid
   ↓
   Page loads: Shows family trees manager
```

### Journey 2: Returning User Login

```
1. User visits: /dashboard
   ↓
   Middleware: isProtectedRoute('/dashboard') → YES
   ↓
   Checks session → No session found
   ↓
   Redirects to: /onboarding?redirect=/dashboard
   ↓
   User logs in
   ↓
   POST /api/auth/login
   ↓
   API validates credentials
   ↓
   Returns session
   ↓
   Client redirects to: /dashboard (from redirect param)
   ↓
   Middleware checks session → Valid
   ↓
   Dashboard loads
```

### Journey 3: Shared Tree Access

```
1. User visits: /shared/abc123
   ↓
   Middleware: isSharedRoute('/shared/abc123') → YES
   ↓
   Allows access (no auth check)
   ↓
   Page component loads
   ↓
   Page component calls API to validate share link
   ↓
   If valid → Shows tree
   If invalid → Shows error
```

## 🛡️ Security Features

### 1. Middleware Protection
- **All protected routes** checked before page loads
- **No way to bypass** authentication
- **Automatic redirects** to onboarding

### 2. Session Management
- Sessions stored in **secure HTTP-only cookies**
- **Automatic refresh** in middleware
- **Validated on every request**

### 3. Security Headers
Every response includes:
```
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
X-Frame-Options: DENY
X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
Referrer-Policy: strict-origin-when-cross-origin
```

### 4. CORS Protection
API routes include proper CORS headers for cross-origin requests.

## 🔧 Key Fixes Applied

### Fix 1: Public Route Early Exit
**Problem:** Middleware tried to create Supabase client for all routes, causing crashes when env vars missing.

**Solution:** Check if route is public first, return immediately if yes.

```typescript
if (isPublicRoute(pathname)) {
  return NextResponse.next(); // Skip everything else
}
```

### Fix 2: Error Handling
**Problem:** Missing env vars caused middleware to crash.

**Solution:** Wrap Supabase client creation in try-catch.

```typescript
try {
  const { supabase } = createMiddlewareClient(request);
  // ... auth checks
} catch (error) {
  // Log error, continue without auth
  supabaseResponse = NextResponse.next();
}
```

### Fix 3: Removed Prisma from Middleware
**Problem:** Prisma doesn't work in Edge runtime (where middleware runs).

**Solution:** Removed `isValidShareLink()` from middleware, validation moved to page components.

## 📊 Current Status (MVP)

✅ **Working end‑to‑end:**

- **Auth & Users**
  - Onboarding uses **Supabase JS client** for email/password signup & login.
  - Supabase session cookies are set in the browser.
  - Server routes use `createClient() + supabase.auth.getUser()` (same as `/api/auth/me`).
  - Prisma `User` table is synced from Supabase user (email + name).

- **Trees**
  - `GET /api/trees` and `POST /api/trees` return/create `FamilyTree` rows for the authenticated user.
  - `/trees` screen loads trees from `/api/trees` (no localStorage).
  - Selecting a tree calls `GET /api/trees/[id]` to load `Person` rows into `appState.familyTree`, then navigates to `/dashboard`.
  - Tree changes (people edits) are kept in memory for now; a `PUT /api/trees/[id]` sync path exists but is not yet wired from the UI (post‑MVP).

- **Sharing**
  - `POST /api/shares` creates a `Share` row tied to the owner’s `FamilyTree`.
  - `GET /api/shares/[shareId]` returns the tree + persons from the DB.
  - “Share Tree” / “Share” in the dashboard calls `/api/shares` and copies `/shared/{shareId}` to the clipboard.
  - `/shared/[shareId]` uses `SharedTreeView` to fetch via `/api/shares/[shareId]` and render a **read‑only** tree.

- **Middleware & Security**
  - Public routes (`/`, `/onboarding`, shared links, static assets) bypass auth.
  - Protected app routes (`/dashboard`, `/trees`, `/explore`, `/settings`, `/api/*` where required) check auth via middleware helpers.
  - Security headers and basic CORS for API routes remain in place.

✅ **Technical health:**

- `npm run build` passes (Next.js 16 + TypeScript).
- Prisma schema (`User`, `FamilyTree`, `Person`, `Share`) is in sync with Supabase Postgres.
- Supabase env vars are loaded from `.env` and not committed.

## 🚀 Deployment Checklist

Before deploying to production:

1. ✅ **Add Environment Variables in Vercel:**
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`
   - `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`
   - `DATABASE_URL`

2. ✅ **Test Authentication:**
   - Sign up new user
   - Login with credentials
   - Access protected routes
   - Verify session persistence

3. ✅ **Monitor:**
   - Check Vercel function logs
   - Verify no middleware errors
   - Test all routes

## 🎓 Understanding the Code

### Middleware Execution Order

```typescript
1. Check if public route → Exit early if yes
2. Try create Supabase client → Catch errors
3. Check if API route → Handle CORS
4. Check if protected route → Verify auth
5. Check if shared route → Allow access
6. Add security headers
7. Return response
```

### Why Public Routes Skip Auth

Public routes like `/onboarding` need to work even if:
- Environment variables aren't set
- Supabase is down
- Database is unavailable

This ensures users can always access the signup/login page.

### Why Prisma Moved Out of Middleware

Middleware runs on **Edge Runtime** which:
- Doesn't support Node.js APIs
- Can't use Prisma (needs Node.js)
- Has limited capabilities

So database operations moved to:
- **API Routes** (Node.js runtime)
- **Page Components** (Server Components, Node.js runtime)

## 📝 Summary

The app now has:
1. **Robust error handling** - Won't crash on missing env vars
2. **Proper route protection** - All protected routes require auth
3. **Graceful degradation** - Public routes work without auth
4. **Security** - Headers, CORS, session management
5. **Performance** - Early exits for public routes

The middleware is production-ready and handles all edge cases properly!
